- [Instructor] We just went through a pretty trivial example
of creating test setup data
by instantiating an entity object, setting values in it,
and using our EntityManager
to persist that object into the database.
Sometimes you need to simulate a fuller
and more involved data scenario
to thoroughly test data access code.
Well, there's a framework for that.
It's called DBUnit.
And for our next exercise,
we will introduce the use of this framework.
DBUnit is a JUnit extension
that helps developers manage the nontrivial task
of keeping the data store in a known state
before and after testing.
As usual with any of our test classes,
there are setup needs.
And for this case, we will have to load
some DBUnit specific configurations.
So let's get started and see what that looks like.
So in this exercise, I'm going to go
into my src/test/java tree as normal.
And into my data.repos package
and I'm going to open up
the CustomerContactRepositoryDbUnitTest.
Now take a look at the setup that's going on here.
A lot is familiar, but a couple of things are new.
We have our test execution listeners,
which are going to help us with DBUnit setup.
The final annotation is the one
that's really giving us what we need,
DatabaseSetup, and we are referring
to an XML file that I created
with our test-datasets.
Let's go ahead and minimize this class for one second
and let's open up that test-datasets file.
I'm going to go into my Package Explorer
and under src/test/resources
is that XML file.
And let's see what we have in here.
So this is some pretty DBUnit specific information.
We are creating a dataset element.
And inside that element,
we create an element for each record
that we want to insert into the database
to simulate the data setup needs that we have.
Now for our tests, we have some pretty simple needs.
I'm simply creating four customer contact records.
I have one for Jenny
and I added some more of Jenny's friends,
Elaine and Susan and Bernard.
So let's go back into our test class.
I'm going to maximize this window again.
And you'll see I have the test case ready to go here for us.
testFindByEmail.
So, what I want to do is create a CustomerContact
and in order to do that,
I'm going to rely on my customerContactRepository.
And we have a findByEmail method
on our repository.
And I'm going to type one of the emails
that I know exist in my test dataset.
So Elaine had an email address in there, so let's use hers,
elaine@myemail.com.
Let's finish this line up.
And that's really all we want to find for this test.
So let's also finish up.
Let's assert something.
I'm just going to do pretty simple assertion.
I want to know that the contact
that came back from my finder
actually has an email address.
And because sometimes I want to be safe
and not retype things, I'm going to copy and paste.
Let's end this line of code, the semicolon.
And now we're ready to run this test.
So I'm going to minimize the window here
and go back over into my Package Explorer,
right-click on my FindByEmail test case,
run it as a JUnit Test.
Wait a few seconds.
And eventually, I should see the green bar.
It always makes me happy when I see that.
And that's it.
So notice what was missing here.
We didn't really have to deal with an entity manager.
We didn't have to create a fake entity,
set some data into it.
All we needed was our test-datasets.xml file.
And from this, you can imagine
that when you have more thorough needs,
you can create more information or more datasets files.
So let's review what we just accomplished.
We created a DBUnit dataset,
and we did so in an XML file.
We were able to completely specify data scenario
without creating data entity classes,
instantiating those classes, et cetera.
This is extremely useful when your project is in a stage
where those types of classes maybe don't exist yet
or maybe you're not the developer
that has the responsibility of making those classes,
but you still want to get started testing
with creating scenarios in a database
and testing how you find that data
or maybe even testing how you insert more data.
We also covered some pretty simple findBy() test cases.
In our instance, it was the findByEmail.
But hopefully that was enough for you
to get an idea of the many possibilities
that are beyond what we covered.